Blog post for pg_graphql v1.2 (#13810)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2023-04-19-whats-new-in-pg-graphql-v1-2.mdx

---
title: 'What''s New in pg_graphql v1.2'
description: 'New Features in the v1.2 release of pg_graphql'
launchweek: 7
tags:
  - postgres
  - graphql
  - planetpg
date: '2023-04-94'
published_at: '2023-04-14T08:00:00.000-07:00'
toc_depth: 3
author: oli_rice
image: launch-week-6/pggraphql/og-pg-graphql.png
thumb: launch-week-6/pggraphql/og-pg-graphql.png
---

It's been 4 months since the [1.0.0 release of pg_graphql](https://supabase.com/blog/pg-graphql-v1).

> Since then, we’ve pushed several features to improve the APIs `pg_graphql` produces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since then, we’ve pushed several features to improve the APIs that `pg_graphql` produces. 
```

In this article, we’ll walk through those features and show examples of each.

### View Support

> Prior to `v1.1` `pg_graphql` was restricted to reflecting standard tables. Following that release, views, materialized views, and foreign tables are similarly reflected in the GraphQL schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to `v1.1`, `pg_graphql` would only reflect standard tables. Since then, views, materialized views, and foreign tables are now also reflected in the GraphQL schema.

For example:
```

```sql
create view "ProjectOwner" as 
  select
    acc.id,
    acc.name
  from
    account acc
    join role r
      on r.id = acc.role_id
  where
    acc.role = 'project_owner'
```

> Since all entities exposed by pg_graphql require primary keys, we must define that constraint for the view using a comment directive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since all entities exposed by `pg_graphql` require primary keys, we must define that constraint for the view. We do that using a comment directive:
```

```sql
comment on view "ProjectOwner"
  is '@graphql({"primary_key_columns": ["id"]})';
```

> which yields the GraphQL type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which yields the GraphQL type:
```

```graphql
type ProjectOwner implements Node {
  nodeId: ID!
  id: UUID!
  name: String
}
```

> With associated `Edge` and `Connection` types. That enables querying via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With associated `Edge` and `Connection` types. That enables querying via:
```

```graphql
{
  projectOwnerCollection (first: 2) {
    edges {
      node {
        nodeId
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Additionally, simple views automatically support mutation events like inserts and updates. That capability allows users to migrate underlying tables while maintaining backwards compatibility with previous API versions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, simple views automatically support mutation events like inserts and updates. You might use these to migrate underlying tables while maintaining backwards compatibility with previous API versions. 
```

Reviewer: Worth adding a brief pointer on what a simple view is (no joins?)

## Filtering

Filtering in SQL is endlessly flexible. We’ve taken two incremental steps to bring more of that flexibility to the GraphQL interface.

### `is null` and `is not null`

> `null` handling is notorious fiddly in both SQL and GraphQL. Despite that, there is common ground we can exploit. In `pg_graphql` each scalar data type has a dedicated filter type e.g. `IntFilter` , `StringFilter` . Each of those filter types now supports an `is` argument allowing filtering on if a value `is null` or `is not null` using `{is: NULL}` and `{is: NOT_NULL }` respectively.

Reviewer: > `null` handling is notorious fiddly in both SQL and GraphQL.

Any chance we can simplify/rephrase this?

```graphql
enum FilterIs {
    NULL
    NOT_NULL
}

type IntFilter {
    ...
    is: FilterIs
}
```

For example:

```graphql
{
  blogCollection(filter: { name: {is: NULL}}) {
    ...
  }
}
```

> to return all `blog`s where the `name` is null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to return all `blog`s where the `name` is `null`.
```

### **`like`**, **`ilike`**, and **`startsWith`**

> Text filtering options in `pg_graphql` have historically been restricted to equality checks. The hesitation was over concerns about exposing a default filter that is difficult to index. The combination of [citext](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/citext.html) and [PGroonga available on the platform](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/pgroonga) solves those scalability risks and enabled us to expand the `StringFilter` with options for `like` `ilike` and `startsWith`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text filtering options in `pg_graphql` have historically been restricted to equality checks. The hesitation was due to concerns about exposing a default filter that is difficult to index. The combination of [citext](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/citext.html) and [PGroonga available on the platform](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/pgroonga) solves those scalability risks and enabled us to expand the `StringFilter` with options for `like` `ilike` and `startsWith`. 
```

  from
    account acc
    join role r
      on r.id = acc.role_id
  where
    acc.role = 'project_owner'
```

Since all entities exposed by `pg_graphql` require primary keys, we must define that constraint for the view. We do that using a comment directive:

```sql
comment on view "ProjectOwner"
  is '@graphql({"primary_key_columns": ["id"]})';
```

Which yields the GraphQL type:

```graphql
type ProjectOwner implements Node {
  nodeId: ID!
  id: UUID!
  name: String
}
```

With associated `Edge` and `Connection` types. That enables querying via:

```graphql
{
  projectOwnerCollection (first: 2) {
    edges {
      node {
        nodeId
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Additionally, simple views automatically support mutation events like inserts and updates. You might use these to migrate underlying tables while maintaining backwards compatibility with previous API versions. 

## Filtering

Filtering in SQL is endlessly flexible. We’ve taken two incremental steps to bring more of that flexibility to the GraphQL interface.

### `is null` and `is not null`

Handling `null` values can be tricky in both SQL and GraphQL. However, there are similarities we can take advantage of.

> In pg_graphql, every scalar data type has its own filter type, such as `IntFilter` and `StringFilter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `pg_graphql`, every scalar data type has its own filter type, such as `IntFilter` and `StringFilter`.
```
